Hello everyone. In this lesson,
we're going to go
over the basics of
optimization in Python to help
cement some of the
optimization concepts we've
discussed in the previous
lessons of this module,
and in fact, throughout
this specialization.
In particular, we're
going to go through some
of the functions
required to solve
a generic non-linear
optimization problem
using the SciPy optimize library.
By the end of this video,
you should know how
to set up and call
a constrained optimization
problem using this library.
In particular, you
should know how to
pass Jacobians to the optimizer,
as well as any required
parameter bounds
defined in the
optimization problem.
So let's get started.
The field of optimization is
a wonderfully rich area of
study which we cannot
explore in detail in
this specialization.
The SciPy optimized library
covers a handful of some of
the most popular
optimization algorithms
making them easily
accessible and ensuring
reasonable efficiency in
their implementation.
Many of the implemented
optimization methods have
a similar structure in terms of
what type of parameters
they require.
So to abstract this away
into a simple interface,
the SciPy optimized library
contains a generic
minimize function.
Some examples of the available
optimization methods
include conjugate gradient,
Nelder-Mead, dogleg, and BFGS.
For more details
on these methods,
see the links in
the supplemental materials.
The specific
optimization algorithm
run by the library will
depend on the method parameter
that you pass to this function.
The method parameter
will also determine
which additional parameters
the optimization
algorithm requires.
For example, in the L-BFGS-B
algorithm that we'll use,
we require not only
the model to minimize,
but also the models Jacobian
and variable bounds.
In the case where the model is
a single scalar valued function,
the Jacobian reduces
to the gradient.
This Jacobian is passed to
the minimize function through
the jac parameter as shown
in this function call.
The actual function
we wish to minimize
is the first argument to
the minimize function.
The constraints are
passed to the constraints
variable as a list of constraint
dictionaries or objects.
In addition, there is also
the optional options
parameter which
advanced users can use to
customize things like what
is output by the optimizer.
These optimization
algorithms also require
an initial guess for
the optimization variables for
the model or objective function,
and this is given by x
naught in the function call.
Let's look at
the BFGS algorithm for
a concrete example of how to
implement an
optimization with SciPy.
Essentially for
the BFGS algorithm,
we are required to pass in
the function pointer to
the actual objective
function we wish to
minimize as well as
a function pointer to
a function that evaluates
the Jacobian of
the objective function.
These functions will
take in a vector
of all of the
optimization variables
in order to evaluate
the objective function and
the Jacobian at a specific point.
Once the optimization
is complete,
the minimize function will
return a result variable.
The member variable of
the results denoted
by x will return
the final vector of
optimization variables where
the local minima
has been achieved.
As we mentioned earlier,
we can also specify
constraints for
our optimization problems.
For most algorithms,
these constraints are
given in the form of
lists or dictionaries.
The simplest type
of constraints are
inequality constraints on
the objective variables
called bounds.
Bounds are specified by
the L-BFGS-B algorithm
as a list of lists,
where each sub-list is of
length two and contains the
upper and lower bound for
each optimization variable.
In other words,
the first sub-list
corresponds to
the bounds for x 0,
and the second sub-list
for x 1 etc.
These bounds are then passed to
the constraints
optional parameter
of the minimize function.
Linear and non-linear constraints
can also be passed
to the optimizer,
but for now we will
focus on using
bounds for optimization
constraints.
For more details, you
can take a look at
the SciPy optimization
documentation online.
You can also combine
multiple types of
constraints by passing in
a Python list of
each constraint object
that you would like to use
in the optimizer function.
To summarize, in this video
we introduced how to set up
an optimization problem using
the SciPy optimization library.
In particular, we
discussed how to pass in
user-defined objective
functions in
Jacobian's as well as parameter
bounds to the optimizer.
You should now have
a good idea of how to solve
general optimization problems
using a Python library.
For more information,
you can consult
the SciPy optimization
library documentation.
After this lesson, we have
a programming assignment
to give you a chance to
practice the concepts
we've discussed here
and to prepare you for
the end of module project.